Added the VSC UGent profile (#376)
nf-core/configs: docs/vsc_ugent.md

# nf-core/configs: University of Ghent High Performance Computing Infrastructure (VSC)

> **NB:** You will need an [account](https://www.ugent.be/hpc/en/access/faq/access) to use the HPC cluster to run the pipeline.

First you should go to the cluster you want to run the pipeline on. You can check what clusters have the most free space on this [link](https://shieldon.ugent.be:8083/pbsmon-web-users/). Use the following commands to easily switch between clusters:

```shell
module purge
module swap cluster/<CLUSTER>
```

> Before running the pipeline you will need to create a PBS script to submit as a job.

Reviewer: Any reason to suggest doing this as running a bash script, instead of using `.bashrc` etc? Just out of curiosity?

Author: Do you mean the `module swap` command?

Reviewer: Yeah so on my old HPC I had a different `.bashrc` on each cluster t hat did `module load nextflow` and `export NXF_SINGULARITY_CACHEDIR=xxx` so I never had to think about it

Author: Yeah true that's useful :) I'll think about it, but maybe it's a bit easier for other users to just add this to the PBS script

Reviewer: Yeah if you're using a PBS script to launch anyway then I guess it's good. We used to run Nextflow on the head node (detached with `-bg` flag / in `tmux` etc), so yeah that's a key difference 👍🏻

```bash
#!/bin/bash

module load Nextflow

nextflow run <pipeline> -profile vsc_ugent,<CLUSTER> <Add your other parameters>
```

> I also highly recommend specifying a location of a Singularity cache directory, by specifying the location with the `$SINGULARITY_CACHEDIR` bash environment variable in your `.bash_profile` or `.bashrc` or by adding it to your PBS script. If this cache directory is not specified,

Reviewer: > If this cache directory is not specified,

seems to kind of just trail off here - is it bad?? 😅

Author: Forgot to remove that part :p

# nf-core/configs: University of Ghent High Performance Computing Infrastructure (VSC)

> **NB:** You will need an [account](https://www.ugent.be/hpc/en/access/faq/access) to use the HPC cluster to run the pipeline.

First you should go to the cluster you want to run the pipeline on. You can check what clusters have the most free space on this [link](https://shieldon.ugent.be:8083/pbsmon-web-users/). Use the following commands to easily switch between clusters:

```shell
module purge
module swap cluster/<CLUSTER>
```

Before running the pipeline you will need to create a SLURM/PBS script to submit as a job.

```bash
#!/bin/bash

module load Nextflow

nextflow run <pipeline> -profile vsc_ugent,<CLUSTER> <Add your other parameters>
```

> I also highly recommend specifying a location of a Singularity cache directory, by specifying the location with the `$SINGULARITY_CACHEDIR` bash environment variable in your `.bash_profile` or `.bashrc` or by adding it to your SLURM/PBS script. If this cache directory is not specified, the cache directory defaults to your `$HOME/.singularity` directory, which does not have a lot of disk space.

Reviewer 2: This is set to `$VSC_SCRATCH_VO_USER/singularity` as default. The docs should reflect that

# nf-core/configs: University of Ghent High Performance Computing Infrastructure (VSC)

> **NB:** You will need an [account](https://www.ugent.be/hpc/en/access/faq/access) to use the HPC cluster to run the pipeline.

First you should go to the cluster you want to run the pipeline on. You can check what clusters have the most free space on this [link](https://shieldon.ugent.be:8083/pbsmon-web-users/). Use the following commands to easily switch between clusters:

```shell
module purge
module swap cluster/<CLUSTER>
```

> Before running the pipeline you will need to create a SLURM/PBS script to submit as a job.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before running the pipeline you will need to create a PBS script to submit as a job.
```

```bash
#!/bin/bash

module load Nextflow

nextflow run <pipeline> -profile vsc_ugent,<CLUSTER> <Add your other parameters>
```

> I also highly recommend specifying a location of a Singularity cache directory, by specifying the location with the `$SINGULARITY_CACHEDIR` bash environment variable in your `.bash_profile` or `.bashrc` or by adding it to your SLURM/PBS script. If this cache directory is not specified, the cache directory defaults to your `$HOME/.singularity` directory, which does not have a lot of disk space.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I also highly recommend specifying a location of a Singularity cache directory, by specifying the location with the `$SINGULARITY_CACHEDIR` bash environment variable in your `.bash_profile` or `.bashrc` or by adding it to your SLURM/PBS script. If this cache directory is not specified, the cache directory defaults to `$VSC_SCRATCH_VO_USER/singularity` per this configuration
```

Author: Singularity itself creates another cache directory, which defaults in the `$HOME/.singularity` and takes up a lot of space. I don't really now why it does that.

```shell

> export SINGULARITY_CACHEDIR=$VSC_SCRATCH_VO_USER/.singularity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
export SINGULARITY_CACHEDIR=$VSC_SCRATCH_VO_USER/singularity
```

```

All of the intermediate files required to run the pipeline will be stored in the `work/` directory. It is recommended to delete this directory after the pipeline has finished successfully because it can get quite large, and all of the main output files will be saved in the `results/` directory anyway.

> The config contains a `cleanup` command that removes the `work/` directory automatically once the pipeline has completed successfully. If the run does not complete successfully then the `work/` dir should be removed manually to save storage space.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The config contains a `cleanup` command that removes the `work/` directory automatically once the pipeline has completed successfully. If the run does not complete successfully then the `work/` dir should be removed manually to save storage space. The default work directory is set to `$VSC_SCRATCH_VO_USER/work` per this configuration
```

> You can also add several TORQUE options to the SLURM/PBS script. More about this on this [link](http://hpcugent.github.io/vsc_user_docs/pdf/intro-HPC-linux-gent.pdf#appendix.B).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also add several TORQUE options to the PBS script. More about this on this [link](http://hpcugent.github.io/vsc_user_docs/pdf/intro-HPC-linux-gent.pdf#appendix.B).
```
